GUIDE ME: I have bad conditions that need to be fixed.

**Below are some steps you can take.  Depending on your
situation, one or more of these steps may be of assistance.**

** Send A Letter To Your Landlord:**

First tell your landlord about the bad conditions in writing. It is
important that your notice to your landlord be in writing. A written
notice is proof of when notice was given, and that notice was in fact
given to your landlord. Make sure you put a date on the notice, and keep
a copy of what was sent for your own record.

Sample Demand for Repair letters can be found here.
(https://www.masslegalhelp.org/housing/bad-conditions/forms-shortcut)

** Get an Inspection:**

If your landlord does not respond to your request to make repairs, you
should get an inspection. Every city and town has a Board of Health or
Code Enforcement Department that is responsible for making sure that
your apartment meets the minimum standards for health and safety
contained in the state sanitary code.

** Withhold Rent Only If You Can Save It:**

Withholding rent can be an effective way to get your landlord to make
the necessary repairs. You should only intentionally withhold your rent
if you can meet all of the following conditions:

* The landlord has knowledge of the bad conditions in your apartment.

* You were current with your rent at the time the landlord received
    knowledge of the defective conditions in your apartment.

* The defective conditions were not caused by you or anyone in your
    household or any of your guests.

* You have the ability to put the withheld rent aside and not spend
    it.

** Sue Your Landlord:**

Massachusetts has very strong laws that require landlords to make
repairs. Sometimes these laws can result in your right to have you rent
abated or reduced -- even if you are behind on your rent. If your
landlord has not been repairing bad conditions, you may be able to sue
your landlord.

Learn more about how to sue your landlord here.
(https://www.masslegalhelp.org/housing/lt1-pullout-13-taking-landlord-to-court)

** Hire a Lawyer:**

In Massachusetts, many of the laws that require landlords to make
repairs also include a part that says the landlord has to pay for your
attorney if you win your lawsuit. For this reason, you may be able to
get a lawyer to represent you without you having to pay that lawyer.

Learn more about Getting Repairs Made and Your Rights to Safe and
Habitable Housing here.
(www.masslegalhelpf.org/housing/lt1-pullout-8-getting-repairs-made)

*The suggestions provided above are not legal advice and are provided as
information only.*

*Whenever you have a legal problem, it is always best to talk to a
lawyer who can give you advice that is uniquely tailored to your
situation. The [Massachusetts Legal Resource Finder](https://masslrf.org/) can help you find lawyers and other legal help resources in your area.*
