**Guide ME: My landlord wants to raise the rent**

*Interview Outline (logic):*

When and how a landlord can ask for a rent increase depends on the type
of tenancy you have.

Choose below your current tenancy.

a.  I have a lease. A lease is a written agreement with a specific end
    date.

b.  I am a tenant at will. Sometimes called a month to month tenancy.

c.  I have a Section 8 or MRVP housing.

    i.  Is it a mobile voucher?

        1.  Yes

        2.  No

d.  I live in public housing.

e.  I live in a mobile home park

f.  I never had a written agreement.

**Guide Me**: My landlord wants to raise the rent

And

I have a lease.

**No increase during the term of the lease**

Your landlord typically can not raise the rent during the term of your
lease. The only time it can be raised during the term is when there is a
lease clause that allows for an increase during the term. This is not
common.

**Check your lease to see if it will automatically renew with a rent
increase**.

Sometimes when a lease automatically renews it will also raise the rent
going forward. This is also not common. If this is your situation, check
the lease to see what you need to do to cancel any renewal.

**My lease has ended. Can my landlord just raise the rent?**

No. You must agree to the rent increase before a landlord can start
charging you the rent increase.

**Watch Out**: *The moment you start paying the higher rent -- even if
you never signed anything -- you have accepted the rent increase and are
stuck paying it*. However, until you agree to pay the increase, you are
not required to pay the higher rent.

**Is there any limit on how much a landlord can raise the rent**?

No. Landlords can set rent at whatever amount they think they can get
tenants to pay, not what you can afford. However, a landlord can not
raise the rent as a way to retaliate against you. If your
landlord asks for rent increase within 6 months of reporting bad
conditions in writing to the landlord or by your reporting code
violations, the rent increase could retaliation. Learn
more about what to do if you think your landlord is retaliating against
you.

**I don't want to pay the rent increase. What should I do?**

1.  Don't sign anything that says you agree to the rent increase.

2.  Tell the landlord clearly in writing that you do not accept the rent
    increase.

3.  Continue to pay the rent you had been paying.

4.  Do not pay the rent increase. *The moment you start paying the
    higher rent -- even if you never signed anything -- you have
    accepted the rent increase and are stuck paying it*.

5.  Negotiate a smaller rent increase. If you are willing to pay a
    smaller rent increase, ask your landlord if he will accept a lesser
    increase. Some landlords may agree.

**What will happen if I don't accept the rent increase?**

When you don't accept a rent increase, it means you no longer have an
agreement with the landlord on the continuation of your tenancy. At this
point a landlord could ask you to leave. If you don't leave voluntarily
a landlord could begin an eviction case against. But the landlord would
first have to send you a notice to quit. However, as long as you
continue to pay your existing rent, the landlord can not evict you for
non payment of rent or the amount the landlord wanted as an increase.
When evictions are brought because a tenant refused to pay a rent
increase, tenants typically can get additional time to move.

Learn more about Rent Increases

**Guide Me**: My landlord wants to raise the rent

And

I am a tenant at will. Sometimes called a month to month tenancy.

Or

I never had a written agreement.

If you are a tenant at will or never had a written agreement, your
landlord can *propose* a rent increase anytime.

**Can my landlord just raise the rent?**

No. You must agree to the rent increase before a landlord can start
charging you the rent increase.

**Watch Out**: *The moment you start paying the higher rent -- even if
you never signed anything -- you have accepted the rent increase and are
stuck paying it*. However, until you agree to pay the increase, you are
not required to pay the higher rent.

**Is there a requirement that the landlord give me written notice?**

While you can agree to a rent increase any time -- even orally, a
landlord may send a written notice to quit that terminates your existing
tenancy that includes an offer to enter into a new tenancy at a higher
rent. While this notice is not required, many landlords will ask for a
rent increase this way because if you don't agree to the rent increase,
the landlord can then proceed to evict you. Learn more about what
happens if you don't accept a rent increase below

**Is there any limit on how much a landlord can raise the rent**?

No. Landlords can set rent at whatever amount they think they can get
tenants to pay, not what you can afford. However, a landlord can not
raise the rent as a way to retaliate against you. If your
landlord asks for rent increase within 6 months of reporting bad
conditions in writing to the landlord or by your reporting code
violations, the rent increase could be seen as a retaliation. Learn more
about what to do if you think your landlord is retaliating against you.

**I don't want to pay the rent increase. What should I do?**

1.  Don't sign anything that says you agree to the rent increase.

2.  Tell the landlord clearly in writing that you do not accept the rent
    increase.

3.  Continue to pay the rent you had been paying.

4.  Do not pay the rent increase. *The moment you start paying the
    higher rent -- even if you never signed anything -- you have
    accepted the rent increase and are stuck paying it*.

5.  Negotiate a smaller rent increase. If you are willing to pay a
    smaller rent increase, ask your landlord if he will accept a lesser
    increase. Some landlords may agree.

**What will happen if I don't accept the rent increase?**

When you don't accept a rent increase, it means you no longer have an
agreement with the landlord on the continuation of your tenancy. At this
point a landlord could ask you to leave. If you don't leave voluntarily
a landlord could begin an eviction case against. But the landlord would
first have to send you a notice to quit. However, as long as you
continue to pay your existing rent, the landlord can not evict you for
non payment of rent. When evictions are brought because a tenant refused
to pay a rent increase, tenants typically can get additional time to
move.

Learn more about Rent Increases

\


**Guide Me**: My landlord wants to raise the rent

And

I have a mobile Section 8 or MRVP voucher

If you have a mobile subsidy, the landlord can not raise the rent
without first getting approval from the housing authority that
administers the subsidy.

If your landlord insists you sign something without first getting
approval from the housing authority, contact your worker and ask for
their help.

Never start paying the rent increase -- even if you agree to it -
without getting approval from your worker. Doing so could get both you
and your landlord in trouble with the housing authority.

Even if you agree to the rent increase, your housing authority worker
needs to do the following before a rent increase can go into effect

1.  Your worker will review the fairness of the increase for you.

2.  Your worker will tell you how the rent increase will change what you
    pay for rent.

**Guide Me**: My landlord wants to raise the rent

And

I have a project based Section 8 or MRVP housing

If you have a subsidy that is fixed to the apartment, your rent is
typically set based on your household income. So if your household
income changes, and you have timely reported that change in income, you
can expect a change in your rent.

If you don't agree that the landlord has set the amount of your rent
correctly, you can request a meeting with your worker or property
manager to review how they calculated your rent. You may find they have
the amount of your household income wrong, and you can then ask them to
redo the calculation.

If you did not timely report an increase in your income, your landlord
can change your rent retroactively. If this is your situation, you
should request a meeting to set-up a payment plan.

Some subsidized apartments have rents that are not tied to your income.
In other words, you pay a fixed rent that is below market rent because
the landlord has agreed to rent to persons who are low income. If you
live in one of these types of subsidized apartments, the rent can only
go-up when the landlord receives approval from a government agency. Your
lease will explain when and how this can happen.

**Guide Me**: My landlord wants to raise the rent

And

I live in public housing

f you live in public housing, your rent is typically set based on your
household income. So if your household income changes, and you have
timely reported that change in income, you can expect a change in your
rent.

If you don't agree that the housing authority has set the amount of your
rent correctly, you can request a meeting with your worker to review how
they calculated your rent. You may find they have the amount of your
household income wrong, and you can then ask them to redo the
calculation.

If you did not timely report an increase in your income, the housing
authority can change your rent retroactively. If this is your situation,
you should request a meeting to set-up a payment plan.

**Guide Me**: My landlord wants to raise the rent

And

I live in a mobile home park

**Do you live in town with rent control.**

If you live in one of these towns, a mobile home park must seeking
permission from the town's rent control agency before it can raise the
rent:

  Belchertown   Bernardston        Boston
  ------------- ------------------ ---------------
  Brookfield    Cheshire           Chicopee
  Dalton        Merrimac           Ludlow
  Middleboro    North Adams        North Reading
  Orange        Palmer             Peabody
  Pittsfield    Raynham            Rockland
  Salisbury     Springfield        Wales
  Warren        West Bridgewater   

To find out how rent control works, you can contact your local town or
city hall to get a copy of the rent control regulation

**No Local Rent Control**

If there is no mobile home rent control where you live, the park owner
can charge any rent they want. A park owner may increase your rent, but
only if:

1.  All other park tenants get the same rent increase, and

2.  The park owner sends park tenants a rent increase notice that says
    that the tenancy ends in 30 days, and what the new rent amount will
    be.

**Illegal Rent Increases**

The rent increase is illegal if:

The landlord violates the rent control ordinance if you live in a town
with rent control.

The park owner does not give you correct written notice.

The rent increase is based on a park rule that is unreasonable or
unfair.

If you suspect that the rent increase is illegal, you can call the
Attorney General's Consumer Complaint Division for help (617) 727-8400.

You can learn more about mobile home park rules here.
