GUIDE ME: My landlord wants to raise the rent and I live in Section 8 or
MRVP housing and I do not have a mobile voucher.

**Below are some steps you can take.  Depending on your
situation, one or more of these steps may be of assistance.**

*If you have a subsidy that is fixed to the apartment, your rent is
typically set based on your household income. So if your household
income changes, and you have timely reported that change in income, you
can expect a change in your rent.*

If you do not agree with the amount that your landlord has set the
amount of your rent, you can request a meeting with your worker or
property manager to review how they calculated your rent. You may find
they have the amount of your household income wrong, and you can then
ask them to redo the calculation.

If you did not timely report an increase in your income, your landlord
can change your rent retroactively. If this is your situation, you
should request a meeting to set-up a payment plan.

Some subsidized apartments have rents that are not tied to your income.
In other words, you pay a fixed rent that is below market rent because
the landlord has agreed to rent to persons who are low income. If you
live in one of these types of subsidized apartments, the rent can only
go-up when the landlord receives approval from a government agency. Your
lease will explain when and how this can happen.

*The suggestions provided above are not legal advice and are provided as
information only.*

*Whenever you have a legal problem, it is always best to talk to a
lawyer who can give you advice that is uniquely tailored to your
situation. The [Massachusetts Legal Resource Finder](https://masslrf.org/) can
help you find lawyers and other legal help resources in your area.*
